
# Stock Price Prediction Using LSTM

This project aims to predict stock prices using a Long Short-Term Memory (LSTM) neural network model. The application is built using Streamlit for the frontend, allowing users to interactively visualize stock price trends and predictions. The stock data is fetched from Yahoo Finance.

## Features

- Fetches real-time stock price data using Yahoo Finance.
- Visualizes stock price trends over a selected time period.
- Predicts future stock prices using an LSTM neural network.
- Interactive web interface powered by Streamlit.

## Installation

To run this project locally, follow these steps:

1. **Clone this repository**:

    ```bash
    git clone https://github.com/anirudhviswanath2001/StockPred.git
    cd StockPred
    ```

2. **Install the required dependencies**:

    Ensure you have Python installed. Then, create a virtual environment and install the dependencies:

    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

## Usage

1. **Run the Streamlit app**:

    ```bash
    streamlit run app.py
    ```

2. **Interact with the app**:

    - Enter the ticker symbol of the stock you want to predict (e.g., AAPL for Apple).
    - Select the time period for fetching the historical data.
    - View the visualizations and predictions generated by the LSTM model.

## File Structure

- `app.py`: Main file containing the Streamlit app code.
- `StockModel.ipynb`: Jupyter Notebook used for data analysis and model building.
- `requirements.txt`: List of dependencies required for running the app.
- `.gitignore`: Lists files and directories to be ignored by Git.
- `LICENSE`: License information for the project.

## License

This project is licensed under the MIT License. See the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for more details.

## Contributing

Feel free to fork this repository and submit pull requests. For major changes, please open an issue first to discuss what you would like to change.

## Contact

For any questions or suggestions, please contact Anirudh Gokamalla.
